# CIPUP

CIPUP (Cipup Is Privacy for the Ultra Paranoid) is a symmetric-key encryption algorithm that aims to increase the randomness of ciphertext by using non-optimal well distributed Huffman Encoding based on (a discarded portion of) the keystream generated by a PRNG (Pseudorandom number generator).

The technical goal achieved is the masking of any weakness due to bias in a PRNG, bringing its strength up the ideal, that being the exhaustive key search of its full key length. The trade-off is in the expanded length of the data when encrypted.

Status: V1.00 Release

## Details

  * Written in C++\CLI
  * Uses Rabbit as a PRNG
  * Designed to be used as a DLL, not a standalone application

## License
Apache License 2.0

# CIPUP Command Line Tool

Standalone executable application of CIPUP.

Status: V1.00 Release

## Features

  * File to File, File to Anonymous Pipe, Anonymous Pipe to File, Anonymous Pipe to Anonymous Pipe

## License
Apache License 2.0

# CIPUP RCT

CIPUP RCT (Ring Communications Tool) is a framework that utilizes CIPUP, RSA Public Key, SSL, nHibernate, and SQLite to facilitate cyclic group communications, wherein a particular group of individuals share a secret key used as the seed for CIPUP and each message sent uses a unique IV (initialization vector).

Status: Preplanning

## Details

  * Written in C# .Net
  * Designed to be used as a module in other projects
  * Group secret keys are asymmetrically encrypted using RSA Public Key for each member and distributed when a new session for a group is generated
  * IVs are also asymmetrically encrypted for each intended recipient of the group (usually only the next link in the ring) and are transmitted along with the CIPUP encrypted message

## Features

  * Provides entropy-based key generation
  * Transmits messages to recipients via email using SSL.
  * Each message transmitted with RCT is signed and validated.
  * Generates the public and private keys for new users and provides distribution assistance.
  * Maintains an address book of individual's public keys, a catalog of all current groups of which the user is a member with the corresponding secret key, and the user's public and private key.

## License
Apache License 2.0
